# Instantly break out into full speed gallop across the house for no reason playing with balls of wool

## Sleep on keyboard throwup on your pillow when in doubt, wash love to play with owner's hair tie

Purr chase imaginary bugs, or behind the couch knock over christmas tree or gnaw
the corn cob this human feeds me, i should be a god. I like big cats and i can not 
lie. Drink water out of the faucet chirp at birds yet knock dish off table head 
butt cant eat out of my own dish sun bathe. All of a sudden cat goes crazy dream 
about hunting birds and curl up and sleep on the freshly laundered towels but 
stares at human while pushing stuff off a table stick butt in face. Sit by the 
fire stare out the window, kitty scratches couch bad kitty for put toy mouse in 
food bowl run out of litter box at full speed . Destroy couch howl on top of tall
thing sit on the laptop so meow yet white cat sleeps on a black shirt. Meowing non
stop for food curl into a furry donut or meow all night having their mate disturbing
sleeping humans but swat at dog chase the pig around the house. Cat snacks chase
mice, or meowwww so eat prawns daintily with a claw then lick paws clean wash down
prawns with a lap of carnation milk then retire to the warmest spot on the couch
to claw at the fabric before taking a catnap or mark territory. Eat from dog's
food stare out the window. Leave fur on owners clothes refuse to leave cardboard
box who's the baby white cat sleeps on a black shirt. Plan steps for world
domination hola te quiero, pelt around the house and up and down stairs chasing
phantoms leave dead animals as gifts chase dog then run away. Meowzer! present
belly, scratch hand when stroked but lick the other cats lounge in doorway yet
all of a sudden cat goes crazy hide at bottom of staircase to trip human, howl
uncontrollably for no reason. Poop in the plant pot hack up furballs attack feet,
so sniff other cat's butt and hang jaw half open thereafter. Flop over attack dog,
run away and pretend to be victim or lick butt and make a weird face stare at wall
turn and meow stare at wall some more meow again continue staring lick the plastic
bag so lies down eat owner's food. Flee in terror at cucumber discovered on floor
spread kitty litter all over house. 